High in this video we are going to talk about how to calculate the gradient.
We have been talking about when we were discussing optimization methods such as gradient descent and
how to optimize the cost function which is basically the Adoor function but we haven't discussed that.
OK.
How to calculate it.
Exactly.
And OK this is what we have been already discussing that we have the cost function rather dependent
variables are the educates adulate one educates two up to educate and and we have to minimize this function
and how are we able to minimize it if we change and a variety educates.
So we are looking for a combination of educators where the cost function which measures the arrow or
is as small as possible and because we have several weights.
The problem we'll be an optimization problem in height I'm engines.
Basically there's going to be as many dimensions as the number of edge weights.
And I'm not sure whether you are familiar with any kinds of optimization technique and this is why we
have been discussing it in the artificial intelligence part the one that we can use brute force search
for example for the optimal solution but it's not going to work fine because of the enormous space but
we could use.
Matter how eristic approaches such a simulated annealing or genetic algorithms.
OK they are just going to provide an approximation but it's going to be good for most of the time.
OK so the problem is that for example we just have a single edge weight and we can measure the error
or basically the cost function where we initialize the adulate at random.
So for example DCS the randomly initialised edge weight and the error is for example like this as you
can see there can be better solution for the adulate.
There's a local optimum and there's a global optimum.
So we have to calculate the gradient to know how much we should adjust the educate the gradient is going
to tell that what direction we should move in order to decrease the mean square error.
So this is going to be the direction of the gradient and I'm not sure whether you are familiar with
higher mathematics but we are able to calculate the gradient with a partial derivative.
So it's going to be the derivative of the mean square error or the cost function.
We do respect it up w adulate.
OK.
And for every know that we have to calculate the so-called data perimeter.
Why.
Because if we know what the data parameter we are able to calculate the gradient quite easily for calculating
that data parameter we need the activation function as well as the dirty work of deactivation function.
I have read several articles concerning our networks and in the beginning I didn't understand that.
They always said that we needed the derivative of the activation function for the training and I always
posed the question that OK why.
What does the derivative has to do with the training.
And basically we have the sigmoid function.
This is what we have been discussing that if we want to make a good training algorithm then the activation
function should be the sigmoid function or the hyperbolic tangan but not the step function.
So let's suppose that we have the sigmoid function it's going to be like this in Java.
So it's going to return a wanted divide by one applause Marth that X minus X where X is the import.
This is the equation basically.
And if you are familiar with higher mathematics you can differentiate this function.
So the derivative of the sigmoid function will be something like this.
You can prove it yourself is the sigmoid function on the X times 1 minus sigmoid function.
X is going to be the derivative of this function.
Why do we need it.
We need it to calculate that a power meter.
Why do we need the data perimeter in order to calculate the gradient.
Why do we need the gradient in order to be able to decide what direction to move in order to end up
with the global minimum.
Why do we need a global minimum.
Because if we need the global minimum then we know the optimal educate.
And if we know what the optimal educate then or networks will produce good predictions.
OK.
So this is the equation how we can calculate that data.
Paramita or for the output layer.
It is extremely important that there's a different equation for the output layer and for the hidden
layer.
So if we would like to calculate that data for the output layer we can do it by multiplying the error
term and we have to multiply it.
We did derivative of the activation function we disarm.
So sometimes the error term is defined differently by the way.
And this is sometimes this negative sign is not present here because we can define the error as the
actual minus the ideal.
But we can define it as the ideal minus the actual.
This is why we usually square the difference between the ideal and the actual.
Because in that case it doesn't matter whether the actual minus ideal or ideal minus actual are because
we can define the terms both ways.
That's why sometimes there's a negative sign and sometimes there is no negative signs.
OK.
So let's see a concrete example.
We have the old boot node and we have the hidden notes for example here.
We have calculated the some minor 0.50 one and the output is 0 that sort 3.
We have the Adoor now we're on 0.2 174 disarm and 0 that 76 for the output we have the edge weights.
So how we calculate data first we have to know the sum.
Because in that equation we have sum.
What is the sum.
It is the activation.
So basically the output times the edge weight loss the output for the next.
Now we're on times the adulate So 0 that three times minus 0.22 Plus is 0 that 76 times 0.15 it's going
to be 0.04 well for then we have to calculate the output for this node.
We have to apply the sigmoid function for this sum was the sigmoid function the sigmoid function is
this function basically wond divide by 1 plus E to the minus x.
Ok so we calculate that the output is equal to the sigmoid function at the sum and we come to the conclusion
that it's equal to zero or 51.
The idea should be won.
We know it from the training data.
So what's the error or the error or is the actual mine is the ideal 0.50 want.
What we have calculated basically was the result of the now we're on that we're at minus 1 and it's
equal to minus zero dot 49.
Then we calculate the data for the output it is minus the error term because we have a negative sign
here and it is a negative value.
It's going to be positive 0.14 nine times the derivative of the sigmoid function that this sum was the
sum.
This is what we have calculated and it's going to be 0 not 1 to 2.
So we have managed to calculate that data for the output node in the next video.
We are going to talk about how to calculate that data output for the hidden layer because if we calculate
it in a different manner there's going to be a different equation for the hidden layer of data and the
output layer or data.
Thanks for watching.